README.md, before:

# setroot

A library for setting desktop background image.  It provides methods and types
for a) querying screen’s monitor configuration, b) creating a pixmap which can
be used as a background image and c) changing the root background.

The library serves the purpose similar to applications such as `Esetroot`,
`xsetroot`, `fvwm-root` etc.  Since it communicates directly with the X display
it does not require external applications to accomplish its task.


## Example usage

```rust,no_run
fn set_background() -> Result<(), setroot::Error> {
    // Connect to X display server.
    let display = setroot::Display::open()?;
    // Create a pixmap to use as the background.
    let root_pixmap = display.root_pixmap()?;
    // Query monitor configuration of the screen.
    let monitors = display.monitors()?;
    // Iterate over all monitors and draw background for each
    // of them.
    for monitor in monitors {
        // Load an image to fit the monitor.
        let image: image::RgbImage =
            load_image_for_dimension(
                monitor.width, monitor.height)?;
        // Draw the image onto the pixmap.
        root_pixmap.put_image(monitor.x, monitor.y, image)?;
    }
    // Set the background.
    root_pixmap.set_background()?;
    Ok(())
}

fn load_image_for_dimension(
    width: u16,
    height: u16,
) -> Result<image::RgbImage, setroot::Error> {
    todo!()
}
```


## Features

The crate defines the following Cargo feature:

* `image`, enabled by default, includes dependency on `image` crate and allows
  `image::RgbImage` objects to be passed as arguments to `put_image` function.


## Limitations

The library has currently tho following limitations:

* It does not offer features for resizing images or tiling images.  It is left
  to the user to prepare correctly sized image that can be draw on the root
  pixmap.

* It works with X11 display servers only and requires RandR 1.5+ extension to be
  present.  This covers vast majority of X11 displays but might not work on
  Wayland desktops or in non-Unix-like environments.

* It assumes the X display server uses 24/32-bit True Colour visual, i.e. that
  colours are represented as 32-bit numbers with 8 bits per channel.  This
  should cover *vast* majority of cases and system configurations.

Commit message:

Replace ImageView trait with IntoXBuffer, support image::DynamicImage
Replace ImageView trait which provides a method to convert an image into RGB
buffer with IntoXBuffer trait which has a method for converting into image
format defined by the X display server.

Significant benefit of this approach is that if an image is not in Rgb8 format
format, we avoid intermediate conversion to that format.  With ImageView the
flow for Rgb16 was to first convert it to Rgb8 and then the crate would convert
that to Rgba8.  With IntoXBuffer, the image is converted directly to Rgba8.

With this change also add support for image::DynamicImage type rather than
limiting support to just RgbImage.

README.md, after:

# setroot

A library for setting desktop background image.  It provides methods and types
for a) querying screen’s monitor configuration, b) creating a pixmap which can
be used as a background image and c) changing the root background.

The library serves the purpose similar to applications such as `Esetroot`,
`xsetroot`, `fvwm-root` etc.  Since it communicates directly with the X display
it does not require external applications to accomplish its task.


## Example usage

```rust,no_run
fn set_background() -> Result<(), setroot::Error> {
    // Connect to X display server.
    let display = setroot::Display::open()?;
    // Create a pixmap to use as the background.
    let root_pixmap = display.root_pixmap()?;
    // Query monitor configuration of the screen.
    let monitors = display.monitors()?;
    // Iterate over all monitors and draw background for each
    // of them.
    for monitor in monitors {
        // Load an image to fit the monitor.
        let image: image::RgbImage =
            load_image_for_dimension(
                monitor.width, monitor.height)?;
        // Draw the image onto the pixmap.
        root_pixmap.put_image(monitor.x, monitor.y, image)?;
    }
    // Set the background.
    root_pixmap.set_background()?;
    Ok(())
}

fn load_image_for_dimension(
    width: u16,
    height: u16,
) -> Result<image::RgbImage, setroot::Error> {
    todo!()
}
```


## Features

The crate defines the following Cargo feature:

* `image`, enabled by default, adds support for `image` crate and its
  `DynamicImage` type which can be rendered via `put_image` method and are
  automatically converted into proper format in sRGB colour space.


## Limitations

The library has currently tho following limitations:

* It does not offer features for resizing images or tiling images.  It is left
  to the user to prepare correctly sized image that can be draw on the root
  pixmap.

* It works with X11 display servers only and requires RandR 1.5+ extension to be
  present.  This covers vast majority of X11 displays but might not work on
  Wayland desktops or in non-Unix-like environments.

* It assumes the X display server uses 24/32-bit True Colour visual, i.e. that
  colours are represented as 32-bit numbers with 8 bits per channel.  This
  should cover *vast* majority of cases and system configurations.
